<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>ch01.xhtml</title>
<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter">
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">1. The elements of cost that might be included in the initial measurement of exploration and evaluation assets.</span></p>
<p>An entity has to apply the provisions of IFRS 6 &#x2018;Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resource&#x2019; to exploration and evaluation expenditures that it incurs.</p>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.1 Initial measurement</span></p>
<p>An entity has to <span class="bold">determine which expenses will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets and apply the policy consistently.</span> While deciding this policy, it has to rely upon the degree to which these expenses can be related to the finding of mineral resources.</p>
<p><span class="bold">1.2 Expenses that can be included </span>in the initial measurement of exploration and evaluation assets are:</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Acquisition of rights to explore</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">Pleasure Inc applies to the board regulating coal mines, for acquiring rights to explore land which it owns, to identify a coal mine and pays a fee of $400.</p>
<p class="boxpara">In this case $400 will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara"><span class="bold">Continuing the example of Pleasure Inc</span></p>
<p class="boxpara">It hires an expert to conduct topographical studies to determine the site for drilling of the mine. The fees paid for this study is $500.</p>
<p class="boxpara">In this case $500 will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Exploratory drilling</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara"><span class="bold">Continuing the previous example of Pleasure Inc</span></p>
<p class="boxpara">It decides on a site and begins its exploratory drilling. It incurs an expenditure of $5,000 for this job $5,000 will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Trenching</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara"><span class="bold">Continuing the previous example of Pleasure Inc</span></p>
<p class="boxpara">Any amount spent by Pleasure Inc for digging trenches at this stage of exploration will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Sampling</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara"><span class="bold">Continuing the previous example of Pleasure Inc</span></p>
<p class="boxpara">Any amount spent by Pleasure Inc for extracting, distributing and testing samples at this stage of exploration will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara"><span class="bold">Continuing the previous example of Pleasure Inc</span></p>
<p class="boxpara">After Pleasure Inc has extracted the first batch of coal it will incur some expenses for evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting the coal.</p>
<p class="boxpara">All expenses incurred for this activity will be recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<p>The list of expenses given above is <span class="bold">an indicative list.</span> There could be many other expenses which could qualify as exploration and evaluation assets. What we should remember is that <span class="bold">until commercial viability is established </span>all <span class="bold">costs </span>incurred are treated as <span class="bold">exploration assets.</span></p>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.3 Expenses that cannot be included</span></p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Expenses incurred before the actual process of exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources begins.</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">Pleasure Inc is in the process of acquiring land for the purpose of exploration activity for evaluation of mineral resources. It is still in the process of signing the required contracts.</p>
<p class="boxpara">The legal expenses incurred for signing the contract is not included under IFRS 6 as the activity of exploration and evaluation of mineral resources has not begun. It will not be treated as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Expenses incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">Pleasure Inc has finished its activity of exploration and has completed the drilling of a coal mine. It has also identified the commercial viability of extracting coal.</p>
<p class="boxpara">All expenses incurred after this (the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting coal is established) are not treated as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
<p class="boxpara">They are the normal expenses incurred by the entity in the ordinary course of their business.</p>
</div>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Expenses incurred for the development of mineral resources</li>
</ul>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">Any expenses incurred by Pleasure Inc to increase the grade of coal which they have extracted as the first sample from the mine is not treated as an exploration and evaluation asset.</p>
<p class="boxpara">They are the normal expenses incurred by the entity in the ordinary course of their business.</p>
</div>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.4 Recognition of liability for restoration work</span></p>
<p>Sometimes an entity is required by law to <span class="bold">restore the excavation site </span>to its former condition after the mine ceases production. Under such circumstances the amount which the entity will have to spend for restoration of the site is <span class="bold">recognised as a liability as soon as the exploration and evacuation work starts. </span>This follows the requirements of IAS 37 &#x2018;Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets&#x2019;.</p>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">On 1 January 20X9, a mining company signs a contract with the government in which it is given the permission to carry out its excavating operations for five years, at the end of which the mine has to be filled up again and the entire land has to be landscaped. The present value of the cost of such landscaping is expected to be $2,000,000.</p>
<p class="boxpara">The liability of $2,000,000 has to be provided for in the first year itself, when the mining company begins its excavation work.</p>
<p class="boxpara">It cannot be provided for gradually over the five years of the mining operations, or in the fifth year (that is, at the end of the excavation work), because a liability has to be recognised as soon as the entity performs any operation affected by these environmental laws.</p>
</div>
<div class="tip">
<p class="boxtitle">Tip</p>
<p>In the above example, note that a provision will be recognised only when the company begins the excavation work, NOT when it signs the contract. (The present obligation on the basis of a past event occurs only when the actual work starts).</p>
</div>
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">2. How exploration and evaluation assets should be classified and reclassified.</span></p>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">2.1 Classification of exploration and evaluation assets:</span></p>
<p>Exploration and evaluation assets can be classified as <span class="bold">tangible or intangible assets according to the nature of the asset which is acquired.</span> There should be consistency in the application.</p>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">Tangible assets: vehicles, drilling rigs<br/>
Intangible assets: depreciation on vehicles, drilling expenses</p>
</div>
<p>Using a <span class="bold">tangible asset </span>to <span class="bold">develop an intangible asset:</span></p>
<ul class="arr">
<li><span class="bold">Does not change </span>a tangible asset into an intangible asset.</li>
<li><span class="bold">Only the extent </span>to which a <span class="bold">tangible asset is consumed </span>in developing an intangible asset is <span class="bold">reflected as intangible asset.</span></li>
</ul>
<p>Exploration and evaluation costs that are capitalised are classified as non-current assets in the statement of financial position, and should be separately disclosed on the face of the statement of financial position and distinguished from production assets, where material.</p>
<p><span class="bold">Measurement after recognition and reclassification of exploration and evaluation assets</span></p>
<p>After initial recognition as with most assets, an entity shall apply either</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>the cost model or</li>
<li>the revaluation model</li>
</ul>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">2.2 Disclosure requirements</span></p>
<p>IFRS 6 requires an entity to disclose the following information about the exploration and evaluation assets recognised in its financial statements.</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Its accounting policies for exploration and evaluation expenditures including the recognition of exploration and evaluation assets.</li>
<li>The amount of assets, liabilities, income and expense and operating and investing cash flows arising from the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources.</li>
</ul>
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">3. When and how exploration and evaluation assets should be tested for impairment.</span></p>
<p>The exploration and evaluation assets shall be assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the <span class="bold">carrying amount </span>of an exploration and evaluation asset <span class="bold">may exceed its recoverable amount.</span></p>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Example</p>
<p class="boxpara">The carrying amount of exploration and evaluation assets of Pleasure Inc is $45,000 while its recoverable amount is $39,500.</p>
<p class="boxpara">In this case the impairment loss of exploration and evaluation assets is $5,500 ($45,000 - $39,500).</p>
</div>
<p>The impairment loss of exploration and evaluation assets is accounted in the same manner as any other impairment loss is accounted. An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment of assets is explained in detail in Study Guide B3.</p>
<p>One or more of the following events indicate that an entity should test exploration and evaluation assets for impairment loss.</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">a) </span>The period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has:</p>
<p class="hang-a1"><span class="sb2">i. </span>expired during the period or</p>
<p class="hang-a1"><span class="sb2">ii. </span>will expire in the near future and</p>
<p class="hang-a1"><span class="sb2">iii. </span>is not expected to be renewed.</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">b) </span>Substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned.</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">c) </span>Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area.</p>
<p>The above list is <span class="bold">not an exhaustive one.</span></p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Quick Quiz</span></p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">1. </span>List the expenses which cannot be included as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">2. </span>State the expenses that can be included as exploration and evaluation assets.</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Answers to Quick Quiz</span></p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">1. </span>The expenses which <span class="bold">cannot be included </span>as exploration and evaluation assets are:</p>
<p class="hang-N1"><span class="sb1">(a) </span>Expenditures incurred before obtaining legal rights to explore a specific area.</p>
<p class="hang-N1"><span class="sb1">(b) </span>Expenditures incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable.</p>
<p class="hang-N1"><span class="sb1">(c) </span>Expenditure incurred to develop a mineral resource.</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">2. </span>The expenses that <span class="bold">can be included </span>as exploration and evaluation asset</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>acquisition of rights to explore</li>
<li>topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies</li>
<li>exploratory drilling</li>
<li>trenching</li>
<li>sampling</li>
<li>activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial</li>
<li>viability of extracting a mineral resource</li>
</ul>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 1</span></p>
<p>The Minerva Ore Company is engaged in the business to extract aluminum. Its policy is to recognise exploration assets and measure them initially at cost.</p>
<p>At the end of 2012 the following details were obtained:</p>
<table border="0" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<td><p>Trenching and sampling expenditure</p></td>
<td><p>$20 million</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Carrying amount of drilling rigs used for exploration</p></td>
<td><p>$40 million</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Depreciation expense on drilling rigs used for exploration</p></td>
<td><p>$6 million</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p><span class="bold">In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, calculate the value of intangible exploration assets to be initially recognised in the financial statements Minerva Ore?</span></p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>$20 million</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>$26 million</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>$60 million</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>$46 million</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 2</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of Mineral Resources, which of the following expenditures would never qualify as an exploration and evaluation asset?</span></p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Trenching</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Expenditures incurred on the development of mineral resources</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Expenditure for activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 3</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of Mineral Resources, which of the following expenditures would never qualify as an exploration and evaluation asset?</span></p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Trenching</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Expenses incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Expenditure for activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 4</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of Mineral Resources, which of the following expenditures would qualify as an exploration and evaluation asset?</span></p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(i) </span>Acquisition of rights to explore</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(ii) </span>Topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(iii) </span>Exploratory drilling</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(iv) </span>Trenching and sampling</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(v) </span>Activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(vi) </span>Expenses incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(vii) </span>Expenses incurred before the actual process of exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources begins.</p>
<p class="hang0">&#x00A0;</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Items (i) to (iii)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Items (i) to (iv)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Items (i) to (v)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Items (i) to (vii)</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Answers to Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 1</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">B</span></p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Trenching and sampling expenditure is an example of intangible assets.</li>
<li>The depreciation relating to a tangible asset used to develop an intangible asset is presented as an intangible asset.</li>
</ul>
<p>However, the remaining carrying amount of the tangible asset is still classified as a tangible asset</p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 2</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">C.</span></p>
<p>IFRS 6 specifically excluded expenses incurred for the development of mineral resources</p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 3</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">C.</span></p>
<p>IFRS 6 specifically excluded expenses incurred after technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting mineral resource is established.</p>
<p>This is because these are the normal expenses incurred by the entity in the ordinary course of their business.</p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 4</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">C.</span></p>
</div>
</body>
</html>