<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>ch01.xhtml</title>
<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter">
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">1. What is an insurance contract.</span></p>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.1 Insurance Contract</span></p>
<div class="definition">
<p class="boxtitle1">Definition</p>
<p class="boxpara">Insurance contracts are contracts between two parties, where one party, the insurer, agrees to compensate the other party, the policyholder, if it is adversely affected by an uncertain future event.</p>
</div>
<p>An uncertain future event exists where at least one of the following is uncertain at the inception of an insurance contract:</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>the occurrence of an insured event;</li>
<li>the timing of the event; or</li>
<li>the level of compensation that will be paid by the insurer if the event occurs.</li>
</ul>
<p>The distinction between financial risk and insurance risk as a contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without significant insurance risk does not meet the definition of an insurance contract.</p>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.2 Scope of the standard</span></p>
<p>An entity shall apply this IFRS to:</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1">a) </span>Insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that it issues and reinsurance contracts that it holds.</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1">b) </span>Financial instruments that it issues with a discretionary participation feature. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires disclosure about financial instruments, including financial instruments that contain such features.</p>
<p>An entity shall not apply this IFRS to:</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">a) </span>Product warranties issued directly by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">b) </span>Employers&#x2019; assets and liabilities under employee benefit plans</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">c) </span>Contractual rights or contractual obligations that are contingent on the future use of, or right to use, a non-financial item (for example, some licence fees, royalties, contingent lease payments and similar items), as well as a lessee&#x2019;s residual value guarantee embedded in a finance lease</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">d) </span>Financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, in which case the issuer may elect to apply either IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 or this IFRS to such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">e) </span>Contingent consideration payable or receivable in a business combination (see IFRS 3 Business Combinations).</p>
<p class="hang-a"><span class="sb1">f) </span>Direct insurance contracts that the entity holds (i.e. direct insurance contracts in which the entity is the policyholder).</p>
<p>IFRS 4 is the first phase from IASB on accounting for insurance contracts. During this phase, the IASB exempts an insurer temporarily from the need to consider the IASB Framework in selecting accounting policies for insurance contracts where there is no specific accounting requirement set out in another international standard.</p>
<p>However, IFRS 4 expressly requires a test for the adequacy of recognised insurance liabilities &#x2013; referred to as the &#x2018;liability adequacy test&#x2019;. Also, IFRS 4 prohibits provisions for possible claims under contracts that are not in existence at the reporting date.</p>
<p>An impairment test for reinsurance assets is required.</p>
<p>IFRS 4 requires information to be disclosed in the financial statements of an insurer that identifies and explains the amounts arising from insurance contracts. This information should include the accounting policies adopted and the identification of recognised assets, liabilities, income and expense arising from insurance contracts.</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 1</span></p>
<p>Uncertainty (or risk) is the essence of an insurance contract.</p>
<p><span class="bold">Which of the following uncertainties exist at the inception of an insurance contract?</span></p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(i) </span>Whether an insured event will occur</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(ii) </span>When it will occur</p>
<p class="hangR0"><span class="sb-R">(iii) </span>How much the insurer will need to pay if it occurs</p>
<p class="hang0">&#x00A0;</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Only (i)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Only (ii)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>(i) and (ii)</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>(i) or (ii) or (iii)</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 2</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Which of the following items would not be covered by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts?</span></p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Motor insurance</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Life insurance</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Marine insurance</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Pension plan</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 3</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Which of the following is true with regards to IFRS 4 Insurance contracts issued by the IASB?</span></p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>IFRS 4 is a draft standard and has not been finalised</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>IFRS 4 is the first phase from IASB on accounting for the insurance contracts</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>IFRS 4 is the second phase from IASB on accounting for the insurance contracts</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>IFRS 4 is the final phase and is awaiting redeliberations from the IASB</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Answers to Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 1</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">D.</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 2</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">D.</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer to SEQ 3</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">B.</span></p>
<p>IFRS 4 is the first phase from IASB on accounting for the insurance contracts. During this phase, the IASB exempts an insurer temporarily from the need to consider the IASB Framework in selecting accounting policies for insurance contracts where there is no specific accounting requirement set out in another international standard.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>