<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>ch01.xhtml</title>
<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter">
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">1. Proposed changes in IFRS.</span></p>
<p>As an on-going process, IASB issues discussion papers, exposure drafts (EDs) and proposed changes to the accounting standards. <span class="bold">The deficiencies in the existing standards lead to the necessity for change.</span></p>
<p>A summary of proposed changes in IFRS is as follows:</p>
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<thead>
<tr>
<th><p><span class="bold">Sr. no</span></p></th>
<th><p></p></th>
<th><p><span class="bold">Title of the document</span></p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p>1</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2009/12</p></td>
<td><p>Financial Instruments: Amortised Cost and Impairment (including credit losses approach)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>2</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2010/01</p></td>
<td><p>Measurement of Liabilities in IAS 37</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>3</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2010/06</p></td>
<td><p>Revenue from contracts with customers</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>4</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2010/09</p></td>
<td><p>Leases</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>5</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2010/13</p></td>
<td><p>Hedge Accounting</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>6</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2011/1</p></td>
<td><p>Offsetting financial assets and liabilities</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>7</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2011/2</p></td>
<td><p>Improvements to IFRS (discussed below)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>8</p></td>
<td><p>ED 2011/4</p></td>
<td><p>Investment entities</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p class="h1"><span class="bold">1.1 ED on Improvements to IFRS</span>s</p>
<p>Changes to standards, however small, are time-consuming for the Board and burdensome for others. The IASB has adopted the annual improvements process to deal with non-urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs.</p>
<p>The IASB has published an Exposure Draft with regards to improvements to IFRSs in 2011. The ED suggests improvements to 5 standards. The proposed changes are summarised below:</p>
<p class="h2"><span class="bold">1. IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS</span></p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">a) Repeated application</span></p>
<p>If an entity&#x2019;s adopts IFRS for the first time, it needs to prepare its first IFRS financial statements in accordance with paragraph 2(a) of IFRS 1.</p>
<p>However the Board noted that the use of the term &#x2018;first&#x2019; raises the question whether IFRS 1 can be applied more than once when, after previously applying IFRS 1 if the entity most recent previous annual financial statements do not include an explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with IFRSs.</p>
<p>The Board therefore proposes to clarify that an entity is required to apply IFRS 1 when the entity&#x2019;s most recent previous annual financial statements do not contain an explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with IFRSs, even if the entity has applied IFRS 1 in a reporting period before the period reported in the most recent previous annual financial statements</p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">b) Borrowing cost</span></p>
<p>Concerns were raised by first-time adopters about the transitional provisions for borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is before the date of transition to IFRSs. Currently the standard does not provide adequate guidance as to whether borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with previous GAAP should be retained, restated or eliminated in the opening statement of financial position.</p>
<p>Therefore, the Board proposes to clarify that borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with previous GAAP can be carried over in the opening statement of financial position.</p>
<p class="h2"><span class="bold">2. IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements</span></p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">a) Clarification of the requirement of comparative information</span></p>
<p>The Board was asked to clarify the requirements for providing comparative information.</p>
<p>The Board proposes that additional financial statement information need not be presented in the form of a complete set of financial statements for periods beyond the minimum requirements because the information would be presented voluntarily.</p>
<p>The Board also proposes to clarify that the appropriate date for the opening statement of financial position is the beginning of the required comparative period.</p>
<p>The Board also proposes to revise certain paragraphs in IAS 1 that relate to the presentation of a statement of financial position for the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in cases of changes in accounting policies, retrospective restatements or reclassifications.</p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">b) Consistency with Conceptual Framework</span></p>
<p>In September 2010 the Board issued the first two chapters (1 and 3) of its new Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. Under the revised framework the Board adopted a new objective of financial reporting, superseding the objective of financial statements. In order to bring consistency with the framework, the Board has proposed to replace the objective of financial statements in IAS 1 with the objective of financial reporting in the Conceptual Framework.</p>
<p class="h2"><span class="bold">3. IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment</span></p>
<p>In IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment the Board proposes to clarify that servicing equipment should be classified as property, plant and equipment when it is used during more than one period and as inventory otherwise.</p>
<p class="h2"><span class="bold">4. IAS 32 Financial Instrument: Presentation</span></p>
<p>The Board proposes to amend IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation to clarify that income tax relating to distributions to holders of an equity instrument and income tax relating to transaction costs of an equity transaction should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.</p>
<p class="h2"><span class="bold">5. IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting</span></p>
<p>The Board proposes to clarify the requirements in IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting relating to segment information for total assets for each reportable segment in order to enhance consistency with the requirements in IFRS 8 Operating Segments.</p>
<p>The proposed amendment clarifies that total assets for a particular reportable segment need to be disclosed only when the amounts are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and there has been a material change in the total assets for that segment from the amount disclosed in the last annual financial statements.</p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">Memorandum of understanding between the IASB and the FASB</span></p>
<p>In September 2002 the IASB and the FASB agreed to work together to remove the differences between international standards and US GAAP. This decision was embodied in a Memorandum of Understanding between the boards. This MOU is known as the Norwalk Agreement.</p>
<p>In 2006, the IASB and FASB set specific milestones in the form of roadmap for convergence to be reached by 2008.</p>
<p>In 2008, the IASB and the FASB issued an update to the MOU, which identified a series of priorities and milestones, emphasising the goal of joint projects to produce common, principle-based standards.</p>
<p>In 2009, the IASB and the FASB published a progress report describing an intensification of their work programme, including the hosting of monthly joint board meetings and to provide quarterly updates on their progress on convergence projects.</p>
<p>In 2012, the IASB and FASB published a joint progress report in which they describe the progress made on financial instruments, including a joint expected loss impairment ('provisioning') approach and a more converged approach to classification and measurement.</p>
<p>In 2013, the IASB and FASB published a high-level update on the status and timeline of the remaining convergence projects. The report includes an update on the impairment phase of the joint project on financial instruments.</p>
<p class="h3"><span class="bold">Adoption of IFRSs in Europe</span></p>
<p>According to the IAS Regulation adopted by the European Union in 2002, the European companies listed in an EU securities market, including banks and insurance companies, are required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs starting with financial statements for financial year 2005 onwards.</p>
<p>EU countries have the option to:</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Require or permit IFRSs for unlisted companies.</li>
<li>Require or permit IFRSs in parent company (unconsolidated) financial statements.</li>
<li>Permit companies whose only listed securities are debt securities to delay IFRS adoption until 2007.</li>
<li>Permit companies that are listed on exchanges outside of the EU and that currently prepare their primary financial statements using a non-EU GAAP (in most cases this would be US GAAP) to delay IFRS adoption until 2007.</li>
</ul>
<p>The European Commission has adopted the following wording for use in the notes to the accounts and in the audit reports of companies subject to the 'IAS regulation':</p>
<ul class="arr">
<li>&quot;in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU&quot; or</li>
<li>&quot;in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU&quot;.</li>
</ul>
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">2. Principle differences between IFRS and UK GAAP.</span></p>
<table class="table2" border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<thead>
<tr>
<th><p></p></th>
<th><p><span class="bold">IFRS</span></p></th>
<th><p><span class="bold">UK GAAP</span></p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS&#x00A0;16</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>The residual value of asset is reassessed at each year end, taking into account current price changes</li>
<li>Impairment reviews are conducted at sufficient regularity if revaluation model is adopted.</li>
<li>The assets are revalued to fair value and must be kept up to date</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>The residual value of the asset is reassessed at each year end but is not adjusted for expected future price changes</li>
<li>Impairment reviews are required for all assets which have a useful life of more than 50 years or are not depreciated </li>
<li>The assets are revalued to existing use value. Also, full revaluations needed every 5 years and interim revaluations needed every 3 years</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 23</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Borrowing costs on qualifying assets must be capitalised as part of cost of asset</li>
<li>Amount to be capitalised is borrowing costs on specific borrowings less income from temporary investment of surplus funds</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Capitalisation of borrowing cost is optional</li>
<li>Amount to be capitalised is only the borrowing costs on actual expenditure. There is no need to net off temporary investment income</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 38</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Development costs must be capitalised if meets the recognition criteria</li>
<li>Goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment annually</li>
<li>Intangibles which can be either separable or arise from legal or contractual rights are recognised on consolidation</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Capitalisation of development cost is optional</li>
<li>Goodwill is amortised over its useful economic life - rebuttable presumption of 20 years</li>
<li>Only intangibles which are separable (i.e. can be sold separately) are recognised on consolidation</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 40</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>There is a choice between cost and fair value model</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>There is no choice regarding measurement -must be measured at open market value</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 36</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Impairment loss of CGU is first allocated to goodwill and then to other assets (both tangible and intangible) on a pro-rata basis</li>
<li>Reversal of impairments against goodwill is not possible. However, there is no such restriction with respect to intangibles</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Impairment loss of a CGU is allocated first to Goodwill then to intangibles then to tangible assets</li>
<li>Reversal of impairments against goodwill and intangibles are allowed in very limited circumstances</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IFRS 3</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>There is a choice between share of net assets and FV method</li>
<li>Acquisition related costs are expensed to IS</li>
<li>Goodwill is not amortised however annual impairment review is required</li>
<li>Negative goodwill/gain on bargain purchase is never shown as a negative asset on CSOFP &#x2013; always recognised in IS immediately as income</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>No choice available regarding valuation of NCI &#x2013; must use shares of net assets method</li>
<li>Acquisition related costs are included as part of cost of investment</li>
<li>Goodwill is amortise over rebuttable presumption that useful economic life is 20 years or less</li>
<li>Negative goodwill/gain on bargain purchase is shown as negative asset on face of CSOFP and amortised</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 28</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Disclosure of one line item &#x2013; Share of profits of associates in the SOPL</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>More disclosure required &#x2013; need to show Parent's share as Associate's operating results, exceptional items, interest, PBT and tax</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 18</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Asset is disclosed as a single item (gross amounts due from customers)</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Asset is split between amounts recoverable on contracts (debtors) and long-term contract balances (stock)</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 17</span><br/><br/><br/><span class="bold">SSAP&#x00A0;21</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Indicators are provided in IAS 17 to determine if the lease is finance lease or operating lease</li>
<li>Land and building elements are split out and account for two separate leases</li>
<li>Operating lease incentive is spread over the lease term on straight line basis</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>If PV of MLPs &#x2265; 90% of FV then the lease is classified as finance lease</li>
<li>Land and building is accounted as one lease (usually operating)</li>
<li>Operating lease incentive is spread over the shorter of lease term and period up to the next rent review</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 24</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>All related party transactions required to be disclosured, irrespective of whether material or not</li>
<li>Name of the related party need not be disclosed</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Only material related party transactions are required to be disclosed disclosure</li>
<li>The name of the related party is disclosed</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IFRS 8</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Segments are classified as operating segments</li>
<li>More detailed segment disclosures</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Segments are classified as business and geographical segments</li>
<li>Less disclosures</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 8</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Financial statements are adjusted for material errors</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Financial statements are adjusted for fundamental errors only</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p class="ct"><span class="bold">3. Principle differences between IFRS and US GAAP.</span></p>
<table class="table2" border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<thead>
<tr>
<th><p></p></th>
<th><p><span class="bold">IFRS</span></p></th>
<th><p><span class="bold">UK GAAP</span></p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS&#x00A0;16</span><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><span class="bold">IAS 36</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li><span class="bold">Asset acquired in an exchange of non-monetary asset </span>is <span class="bold">recognised at fair value.</span> If fair value is not determinable then the asset is recorded at the carrying value of the asset given up</li>
<li><span class="bold">Costs of major inspections and overhaul </span>is capitalised and amortised up to next major inspection</li>
<li><span class="bold">Revaluations of assets </span>to fair value is permitted as an alternative to the cost model but not required. If revaluation method is adopted, it must be applied to the entire class of asset.</li>
<li>Each <span class="bold">part </span>of an item of property, plant and equipment which is significant in cost in relation to the total cost of the item must be <span class="bold">depreciated separately</span></li>
<li>If an asset&#x2019;s carrying amount is decreased as a result of revaluation then the decrease is recognised in SOPL. However, the decrease in value is recognised in OCI to the extent of any credit balance existing in the revaluation surplus for that asset. Similarly, a gain is recognised for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of the cumulative impairment loss that has been recognised earlier.</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Assets acquired in exchanges of non-monetary assets are <span class="bold">generally recorded at fair value.</span> If the fair value is not determinable then the transaction is recorded using carry over basis</li>
<li>Costs of major inspections and overhauls <span class="bold">may be expensed </span>as incurred or capitalised and amortised up to next major inspection or overhaul </li>
<li>Revaluation of asset to fair value is <span class="bold">not permitted except for impairment</span></li>
<li><span class="bold">Component depreciation </span>is not required but is allowed.</li>
<li>Restoration of previously recognised loss is not permitted</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 17</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Indicators are provided in IAS 17 to determine if the lease is finance lease or operating lease</li>
<li>In sale and leaseback transactions where leaseback is operating lease, the gain is recognised immediately.</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Quantitative threshold applies i.e. if PV of MLPs &#x2265; 90% of FV then the lease is classified as finance lease</li>
<li>In sale and leaseback transactions where leaseback is operating lease, the gain is recognised over the lease term.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 2</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>LIFO method of valuation of inventory is prohibited</li>
<li>Inventories shall be measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>LIFO method of valuation of inventory is permitted</li>
<li>Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or market value</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 8</span><br/><br/><br/><br/><span class="bold">IAS 23</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis unless management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading</li>
<li>IAS 23 applies to a qualifying asset which is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale</li>
<li>Amount to be capitalised is borrowing costs on specific borrowings less income from temporary investment of surplus funds</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>U.S. GAAP contains no guidance.</li>
<li>The definition of a qualifying asset does not include the term substantial</li>
<li>Amount to be capitalised is only the borrowing costs on actual expenditure. Netting off of temporary investment income is generally not permitted</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 40</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Investment property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee under a finance lease) to earn capital appreciation rather than for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes or Sale in the ordinary course of business</li>
<li>An entity can choose either cost model or fair value model for subsequent recognition of investment property</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>There is no equivalent standard in U.S. GAAP. Property held for investment purposes is treated in the same way as other property, plant and equipment</li>
<li>Fair value model is not allowed</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><span class="bold">IAS 38</span></p></td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>An entity can choose either the cost model or the revaluation model when there is an active market. If the revaluation model is selected, all intangibles in that class shall be treated under the revaluation model unless there is no active market for those assets, in which case the cost model is used.</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="arr">
<li>Revaluation is not permitted</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Quick Quiz</span></p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">1. </span>Does the US GAAP permit the revaluation of non-current asset to fair value?</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Yes</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>No</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>No, except where there is impairment</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Yes, except where there is impairment</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">2. </span>LIFO method of valuation of inventory is permitted under:</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>US GAAP</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>UK GAAP</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>IFRS</p>
<p class="hang-N10"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>None of the above</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">3. </span>How negative goodwill (gain on bargain) is treated under UK GAAP?</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Answer to Quick Quiz</span></p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">1. </span>The correct option is <span class="bold">C.</span></p>
<p class="hangpara">Under US GAAP, revaluation of asset to fair value is not permitted except for impairment.</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">2. </span>The correct option is A.</p>
<p class="hangpara">LIFO method of inventory is permitted under US GAAP.</p>
<p class="hang-N"><span class="sb-n">3. </span>Negative goodwill/gain on bargain purchase is shown as negative asset on face of consolidated statement of financial position and amortised.</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 1</span></p>
<p>Which of the following statement regarding borrowing costs is correct under IFRS?</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Borrowing costs on qualifying assets must be capitalised as part of cost of asset</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets is optional</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Borrowing costs on qualifying assets must be expensed in SOPL</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>None of the above</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 2</span></p>
<p>Under US GAAP, inventories shall be measured at:</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>The lower of cost or net realisable value</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>The lower of cost or market value</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>The lower of market value and net realisable value</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>The weighted average cost price</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 3</span></p>
<p>Which one of the following option is correct with regards to measurement of investment property under the UK GAAP?</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>At Cost</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>At Cost or Fair value</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Only open market value</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Value in use</p>
<p><span class="bold">Question 4</span></p>
<p>What is the correct treatment of acquisition related cost in a business combination under UK GAAP?</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">A </span></span>Acquisition related costs are included as part of cost of investment</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">B </span></span>Acquisition related costs are expensed to income statement</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">C </span></span>Acquisition related costs are deferred over a period of 5 years and expensed to income statement</p>
<p class="hang0"><span class="sb1"><span class="bold">D </span></span>Acquisition related costs are adjusted in the goodwill</p>
<p class="h3a"><span class="bold">Answers to Self Examination Questions</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer 1</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">A.</span></p>
<p>In accordance with IAS 23, borrowing costs on qualifying assets must be capitalised as part of cost of asset.</p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer 2</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">B.</span></p>
<p>Under US GAAP, inventories shall be measured at the lower of cost or market value.</p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer 3</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">C.</span></p>
<p><span class="bold">Answer 4</span></p>
<p>The correct option is <span class="bold">A.</span></p>
</div>
</body>
</html>