<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>copy.xhtml</title>
<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="copyright">
<p>Edition 4, Version 3</p>
<p>ISBN No 978-1-84808-650-0</p>
<p>Published by</p>
<p>Get Through Guides Ltd.<br/>
Lower First Floor, Bishops House<br/>
Market Place<br/>
Chalfont St. Peter<br/>
SL9 9HE<br/>
Buckinghamshire<br/>
UK</p>
<p>Website: <a href="http://www.GetThroughGuides.com" target="_blank">www.GetThroughGuides.com</a><br/>
Email: <a href="mailto:enquiry@GetThroughGuides.com">enquiry@GetThroughGuides.com</a></p>
<div class="copy0">
<p>IFRS Foundation Copyright and Acknowledgement</p>
<p>International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards, Interpretations, Exposure Drafts, and other IASB publications are copyright of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation. The approved text of International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations is that published by the IASB in the English language. Copies may be obtained direct from IASB. Please address publications and copyright matters to:</p>
<p>IFRS Foundation Content Services, 30 Cannon Street, London EC4M 6XH, United Kingdom. Telephone +44(0)20 7332 2730, Fax: +44 (0)20 7332 2749, Email: <a href="mailto:publications@ifrs.org" target="_blank">publications@ifrs.org</a> Web: <a href="http://www.ifrs.org" target="_blank">http://www.ifrs.org</a></p>
<p>All rights reserved. No part of IASB&#x2019;s publication may be translated, reprinted or reproduced or utilised in any form either in whole or in part or by any electronic, mechanical or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage and retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the IFRS Foundation.</p>
<p>The various extracts of International Financial Reporting Standards or International Accounting Standards in this training material, are reproduced by the publisher, GTG Holdings with the permission of IFRS Foundation.</p>
<p>&#x201C;IAS&#x201D;, &#x201C;IASB&#x201D;, &#x201C;IASC&#x201D;, &#x201C;IASCF&#x201D;, &#x201C;IASs&#x201D;, &#x201C;IFRIC&#x201D;, &#x201C;IFRS&#x201D;, &#x201C;International Accounting Standards&#x201D;, &#x201C;International Financial Reporting Standards&#x201D; and &#x201C;SIC&#x201D; are Trade Marks of the IFRS Foundation.</p>
</div>
<p>Limit of liability/Disclaimer of warranty: While the Publisher has used its best efforts in preparing this book, it makes no warranties or representations with respect to the accuracy or completeness of contents of this book and specifically disclaims any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for any specific or general purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales or other representatives or written sales material. Each company is different and the suggestions made in this book may not suit a particular purpose. Companies/individuals should consult professionals where appropriate. The publisher shall not be liable for any loss of profit or other commercial damages including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential or other damages.</p>
<p>All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, scanning, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Get Through Guides Ltd.</p>
<p>The publisher is grateful to the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants for permission to reproduce past examination questions and their answers.</p>
<p>The publisher has made every effort to contact the holders of copyright material. If any such material has been inadvertently overlooked the publishers will be pleased to make the necessary arrangements at the first opportunity.</p>
<p>No responsibility for any loss to anyone acting or refraining from action as a result of any material in this publication can be accepted by the author, editor or publisher.</p>
<p>&#x00A9; Get Through Guides 2016</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>