<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>fm01.xhtml</title>
<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter">
<p class="h2A"><span class="bold">The Study Guide includes features like:</span></p>
<div class="box">
<ul class="square">
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Get Through Intro&#x2019;: </span>explains <span class="bold">why </span>the particular Study Guide is important through real life example.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Definition&#x2019;: </span>explains the meaning of important terminologies.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Example&#x2019;: </span>makes easy complex concepts.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Tip&#x2019;: </span>helps to understand how to deal with complicated portions.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Important&#x2019;: </span>highlights important concepts, formats, Acts, sections, standards, etc.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Summary&#x2019;: </span>highlights the key points of the Learning Outcomes.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Diagram&#x2019;: </span>facilitates memory retention.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Test Yourself&#x2019;: </span>helps check whether students have assimilated a particular Learning Outcome.</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Quick Quiz&#x2019;: </span>helps students for quick revision of the Study Guide</li>
<li><span class="bold">&#x2018;Self Examination Questions&#x2019;: </span>exam standard questions at the end of each Study Guide.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="h2A"><span class="bold">Introduction to the Cert IFR</span></p>
<p>The Association of Certified Chartered Accountants, (ACCA&#x2019;s) Certificate in IFRS course offers a broad introduction to the field of International Financial Reporting and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The qualification is structured in an accessible and user-friendly way that underlines key information and provides useful summaries.</p>
<p class="h2A"><span class="bold">Objectives</span></p>
<ul class="square">
<li>To help you understand how International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are used around the world</li>
<li>To explain how the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation (IFRSF) / International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) work and how these are being changed</li>
<li>To examine the fundamental requirements of IFRS on a standard-by-standard basis</li>
<li>To provide guidance on how to use IFRS in practice.</li>
</ul>
<p class="h2A"><span class="bold">Exam approach</span></p>
<p>The certificate is assessed by a one&#x2014;hour exam with multiple-choice questions. The pass mark is 50%.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>